# PIEZO_EFFECT_ON_ROADS
Piezoelectric energy harvesters (PEHs) are piezoelectric architectures that are smartly designed 
to maximum capture ambient vibration/motion energy into piezoelectric material and convert the 
mechanical energy into electrical energy. The critical piezoelectric material properties for energy 
harvesting are briefly introduced to provide the reader with a basic background. The state-of-theart piezoelectric energy harvesting technologies have been reviewed. These PEH concepts 
include the cantilever beam-based unimorph and bimorph PEHs, flex tensional PEHs, edgeclamped PEHs, and the advanced PEHs. Flex tensional PEHs are the most promising PEH 
technology on the market because their average power output is at least one order of magnitude 
higher than cantilever beam PEHs and edge-clamped PEHs. Flex tensional PEHs are also 
relatively easily integrated into aerospace space systems with little effect on flow dynamic 
control. In addition, flex tensional PEHs can be operated in both resonance and off-resonance 
modes. Cymbal-type flex tensional PEH research opened the door to flextensional PEHs. The 
“33” mode multilayer stack-based flex tensional PEH is one of the most promising PEHs for 
practical application, with advantages such as capturing more mechanical energy into the 
piezoelectric structure, increasing mechanical to electrical energy conversion efficiency three to 
five times, and increasing energy storage efficiency with optimized multilayer configuration. The 
electrical power delivery from a piezoelectric structure to a resistive load and the energy storage 
issues are addressed. PEH characterization methods are briefly introduced. Finally, suggestions 
on PEHs for aerospace applications are discussed. This effect has been applied in various fields, 
including energy harvesting and sensing. In the context of road projects, piezoelectric materials 
canbe installed beneath the road surface to harvest energy from passing vehicles. As a vehicle
drives over the piezoelectric surface, the pressure generated by the weight of the vehicle causes 
the material to deform, producing an electrical charge that can be captured and stored.
